Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all fellow practitioners and friends who share
the concerns of a Buddhist follower,
stemming from compassion and
wisdom. This question
relates to the karmic consequences of one's
father's actions. After studying Buddhism
and gaining enlightenment about karma, the
person asks: "My dear Ly, I'm sharing a story about
my family. I hope you can guide me so I
can find peace of mind. My maternal family has
a female
dog. This dog is very protective of its relatives and
family. It's very
fierce. It has bitten many people, especially
strangers, causing my father to have to
pay fines and
take them for injections and treatment many times. But
with family members, the dog absolutely
never bites; it's very affectionate and lovable, sometimes even making my
father upset."  And the argument with
the person who bit him caused him to become angry and turn his anger towards his son. He
once tied a rock around the dog's neck, drowned it
in the river, then pulled it out before it
could drown, or beat it within an inch of its
life, but it still wouldn't
stop biting people.
I felt sorry for it, so during Tet (Lunar New Year), I asked my father to sell the dog to me so I could take it to the temple and have the monks look after it. But my father absolutely refused, fearing it would
escape and bite someone. I also
told the dog, "I'll take you
to the temple to practice meditation and lessen your suffering." But today,
before I could do anything, my father called the
person who sold it. From what he told me, it barked and
struggled a lot. Hearing this, I was extremely upset and felt
helpless. I felt so sorry for
it. It was very well-behaved; when
my child was sleeping and the blanket slipped
off, it bit the blanket with its teeth to retaliate. I
want to ask you, since the person who bought the dog
will definitely kill my dog, is the
karma my father is facing considered the
karma of killing? And
how can I resolve this karma, especially since I
haven't fulfilled my promise?  I've
brought the dog to the temple,
but now I don't know what to do to alleviate its
suffering. I hope you, Sister Hoan Hi, will guide me. My
heart is truly filled with
regret and sorrow tonight. Dear
friends, in this world, there is
so much killing of living beings,
so much eating of living beings. Therefore,
according to Buddhist teachings, the karmic consequences for humans are numerous. If
you kill, there will be consequences:
firstly, many illnesses; secondly, a
shorter lifespan. There are many
things we must believe in regarding the principle of cause and
effect in Buddhism. For example, some
people who kill dogs,
before they die
or fall ill, also
experience karmic consequences, no different from those of the
dog before it was
killed. That's why the dog village in Nhat Tan, as seen
online, has many stories of
families suffering karmic retribution.
There are many
stories of cows seeking revenge, like pigs seeking revenge. There are
many such stories.  The
practical evidence regarding the law of cause and effect in
Buddhism, the numerous verifications of the
Buddha's teachings, means that Buddhist disciples
have already heard and understood them, but through practical experience,
they believe even more. Therefore, the concern for one
's father's karmic retribution, if that retribution involves
killing, is the fulfillment of a filial child, the
fulfillment of a true Buddhist disciple. I
will analyze
this through practical examples, from the
act of selling a dog to
someone who will kill it.
The consequences of that act, depending on the severity of the sin, will
vary. It's not that
there is no suffering; there must be
suffering. So,
regarding the
dog you asked about – whether that constitutes
killing –
it still has a corresponding karmic consequence. It
cannot be without consequences.
Moving on to other parts
of your discussion, there's this amusing part:
if a dog bites people, and
you bring it to the monks, they
must practice meditation.  She suggested taking the
dog to the monks to look after, but that's terrible! Monks
have to practice asceticism, and they're not supposed to look after
dogs, so that's not
allowed. She thought, "Taking the dog
to the monks to look after like that is unacceptable." Of
course, sometimes
temples keep dogs, but if the
dog is too vicious,
it has to be chained up, meaning it's chained up all the time. Then, after
a while, when it's tame, you
can let it out. If it's not tame, you have to
chain it up because temples are
places with many Buddhists passing by,
many people coming and going. If you let it out,
it will bite many people.
Honestly, being bitten by a dog hurts a lot. Its teeth
sink in, it hurts so much. Just seeing it is scary.
It opens its mouth, bares its four sharp teeth, that's
enough to threaten someone to
death, not to mention when it bites, and the
dog's teeth bite down so hard. It
doesn't even open its mouth to let it release,
it pulls out a piece of
flesh, it's very gruesome. So with
dogs...  Because it's so disgusting, firstly,
we have to lock it in a
cage, and when we take it out to relieve itself,
we have to walk it. If we
love it and don't want to kill it,
we have to do that because of
its nature, its karma. It's already
very disgusting. So,
it's difficult for it to transform unless it
enters a certain karmic situation
where it receives very good training. Ideally,
if our family has good fortune or some kind of
connection, we could
send that dog to a place where they
train dogs, and it would become a
good dog. That's all. The matter is
already done, and there's no point in talking about it anymore.
We can treat it like a
family member. Knowing it's
dead, we practice the Buddha's teachings,
we do good deeds, make offerings to the Three Jewels, and
dedicate the blessings to it.
If it's still wandering in the realm of hungry
ghosts, it will benefit from that. And
if it's gone to other realms,
we can do that.  That act of kindness
will also bring some comfort to your heart, and it
will make you feel better. So, I'll answer
your question like this, and I hope
that next time you encounter
this situation, you will handle it better.
[Music]
[Applause]
K
[Music]
[Applause] [Music] [
Applause]
[Music]